README.md, before:


[![Build Status](https://www.travis-ci.com/rodrigo-arenas/pyworkforce.svg?branch=main)](https://www.travis-ci.com/rodrigo-arenas/pyworkforce)
[![Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/rodrigo-arenas/pyworkforce/branch/main/graphs/badge.svg?branch=main&service=github)](https://codecov.io/github/rodrigo-arenas/pyworkforce?branch=main)
[![PyPI Version](https://badge.fury.io/py/pyworkforce.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/pyworkforce)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.6%20%7C%203.7%20%7C%203.8%20%7C%203.9-blue)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)


# pyworkforce
Common tools for workforce management, schedule and optimization problems built on top of packages like google's or-tools 
and custom modules

## Features:
pyworkforce currently includes:

[Queue Systems](./pyworkforce/queuing):
- **queing.ErlangC:** Find the number of positions required to attend incoming traffic to a constant rate, infinite queue length and no dropout.
  
[Shifts](./pyworkforce/shifts):

It finds the number of resources to schedule in a shift, based in the number of required positions per time interval (found for example using [queing.ErlangC](./pyworkforce/queuing/erlang.py)), maximum capacity restrictions and static shifts coverage.<br>
- **shifts.MinAbsDifference:** This module finds the "optimal" assignation by minimizing the total absolute differences between required resources per interval, against the scheduled resources found by the solver.
- **shifts.MinRequiredResources**: This module finds the "optimal" assignation by minimizing the total weighted amount of scheduled resources (optionally weighted by shift cost), it ensures that in all intervals, there are
            never less resources shifted that the ones required per period. 


# Usage:
Install pyworkforce

```
pip install pyworkforce
```

If you are having troubles with or-tools installation, check the [or-tools guide](https://github.com/google/or-tools#installation)

For complete list and details of examples go to the 
[examples folder](https://github.com/rodrigo-arenas/pyworkforce/tree/develop/examples)

### Queue systems:

#### Example:

```python
from pyworkforce.queuing import ErlangC

erlang = ErlangC(transactions=100, asa=20/60, aht=3, interval=30, shrinkage=0.3)

positions_requirements = erlang.required_positions(service_level=0.8, max_occupancy=0.85)
print("positions_requirements: ", positions_requirements)
```
Output:
```
>> positions_requirements:  {'raw_positions': 14, 
                             'positions': 20, 
                             'service_level': 0.8883500191794669, 
                             'occupancy': 0.7142857142857143, 
                             'waiting_probability': 0.1741319335950498}
```

### Shifts
#### Example:

```python
from pyworkforce.shifts import MinAbsDifference, MinRequiredResources

# Rows are the days, each entry of a row, is number of positions required at an hour of the day (24). 
required_resources = [
    [9, 11, 17, 9, 7, 12, 5, 11, 8, 9, 18, 17, 8, 12, 16, 8, 7, 12, 11, 10, 13, 19, 16, 7],
    [13, 13, 12, 15, 18, 20, 13, 16, 17, 8, 13, 11, 6, 19, 11, 20, 19, 17, 10, 13, 14, 23, 16, 8]
]

# Each entry of a shift,an hour of the day (24), 1 if the shift covers that hour, 0 otherwise
shifts_coverage = {"Morning": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
                   "Afternoon": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0],
                   "Night": [1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1],
                   "Mixed": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]}


# Method One
difference_scheduler = MinAbsDifference(num_days=2,
                                        periods=24,
                                        shifts_coverage=shifts_coverage,
                                        required_resources=required_resources,
                                        max_period_concurrency=27,
                                        max_shift_concurrency=25)

difference_solution = difference_scheduler.solve()

# Method Two

requirements_scheduler = MinRequiredResources(num_days=2,
                                              periods=24,
                                              shifts_coverage=shifts_coverage,
                                              required_resources=required_resources,
                                              max_period_concurrency=27,
                                              max_shift_concurrency=25)

requirements_solution = requirements_scheduler.solve()

print("difference_solution :", difference_solution)

print("requirements_solution :", requirements_solution)
```
Output:
```
>> difference_solution: {'status': 'OPTIMAL', 
                          'cost': 157.0, 
                          'resources_shifts': [{'day': 0, 'shift': 'Morning', 'resources': 8},
                                               {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Afternoon', 'resources': 11},
                                               {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Night', 'resources': 9}, 
                                               {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Mixed', 'resources': 1}, 
                                               {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Morning', 'resources': 13}, 
                                               {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Afternoon', 'resources': 17}, 
                                               {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Night', 'resources': 13}, 
                                               {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Mixed', 'resources': 0}]
                          }

>> requirements_solution: {'status': 'OPTIMAL', 
                           'cost': 113.0, 
                           'resources_shifts': [{'day': 0, 'shift': 'Morning', 'resources': 15}, 
                                                {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Afternoon', 'resources': 13}, 
                                                {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Night', 'resources': 19}, 
                                                {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Mixed', 'resources': 3}, 
                                                {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Morning', 'resources': 20}, 
                                                {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Afternoon', 'resources': 20}, 
                                                {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Night', 'resources': 23}, 
                                                {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Mixed', 'resources': 0}]}
```

Commit message:

Advise to use virtual env

README.md, after:


[![Build Status](https://www.travis-ci.com/rodrigo-arenas/pyworkforce.svg?branch=main)](https://www.travis-ci.com/rodrigo-arenas/pyworkforce)
[![Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/rodrigo-arenas/pyworkforce/branch/main/graphs/badge.svg?branch=main&service=github)](https://codecov.io/github/rodrigo-arenas/pyworkforce?branch=main)
[![PyPI Version](https://badge.fury.io/py/pyworkforce.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/pyworkforce)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.6%20%7C%203.7%20%7C%203.8%20%7C%203.9-blue)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)


# pyworkforce
Common tools for workforce management, schedule and optimization problems built on top of packages like google's or-tools 
and custom modules

## Features:
pyworkforce currently includes:

[Queue Systems](./pyworkforce/queuing):
- **queing.ErlangC:** Find the number of positions required to attend incoming traffic to a constant rate, infinite queue length and no dropout.
  
[Shifts](./pyworkforce/shifts):

It finds the number of resources to schedule in a shift, based in the number of required positions per time interval (found for example using [queing.ErlangC](./pyworkforce/queuing/erlang.py)), maximum capacity restrictions and static shifts coverage.<br>
- **shifts.MinAbsDifference:** This module finds the "optimal" assignation by minimizing the total absolute differences between required resources per interval, against the scheduled resources found by the solver.
- **shifts.MinRequiredResources**: This module finds the "optimal" assignation by minimizing the total weighted amount of scheduled resources (optionally weighted by shift cost), it ensures that in all intervals, there are
            never less resources shifted that the ones required per period. 


# Usage:
Install pyworkforce

It's advised to install pyworkforce using a virtual env, inside the env use:

```
pip install pyworkforce
```

If you are having troubles with or-tools installation, check the [or-tools guide](https://github.com/google/or-tools#installation)

For complete list and details of examples go to the 
[examples folder](https://github.com/rodrigo-arenas/pyworkforce/tree/develop/examples)

### Queue systems:

#### Example:

```python
from pyworkforce.queuing import ErlangC

erlang = ErlangC(transactions=100, asa=20/60, aht=3, interval=30, shrinkage=0.3)

positions_requirements = erlang.required_positions(service_level=0.8, max_occupancy=0.85)
print("positions_requirements: ", positions_requirements)
```
Output:
```
>> positions_requirements:  {'raw_positions': 14, 
                             'positions': 20, 
                             'service_level': 0.8883500191794669, 
                             'occupancy': 0.7142857142857143, 
                             'waiting_probability': 0.1741319335950498}
```

### Shifts
#### Example:

```python
from pyworkforce.shifts import MinAbsDifference, MinRequiredResources

# Rows are the days, each entry of a row, is number of positions required at an hour of the day (24). 
required_resources = [
    [9, 11, 17, 9, 7, 12, 5, 11, 8, 9, 18, 17, 8, 12, 16, 8, 7, 12, 11, 10, 13, 19, 16, 7],
    [13, 13, 12, 15, 18, 20, 13, 16, 17, 8, 13, 11, 6, 19, 11, 20, 19, 17, 10, 13, 14, 23, 16, 8]
]

# Each entry of a shift,an hour of the day (24), 1 if the shift covers that hour, 0 otherwise
shifts_coverage = {"Morning": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
                   "Afternoon": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0],
                   "Night": [1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1],
                   "Mixed": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]}


# Method One
difference_scheduler = MinAbsDifference(num_days=2,
                                        periods=24,
                                        shifts_coverage=shifts_coverage,
                                        required_resources=required_resources,
                                        max_period_concurrency=27,
                                        max_shift_concurrency=25)

difference_solution = difference_scheduler.solve()

# Method Two

requirements_scheduler = MinRequiredResources(num_days=2,
                                              periods=24,
                                              shifts_coverage=shifts_coverage,
                                              required_resources=required_resources,
                                              max_period_concurrency=27,
                                              max_shift_concurrency=25)

requirements_solution = requirements_scheduler.solve()

print("difference_solution :", difference_solution)

print("requirements_solution :", requirements_solution)
```
Output:
```
>> difference_solution: {'status': 'OPTIMAL', 
                          'cost': 157.0, 
                          'resources_shifts': [{'day': 0, 'shift': 'Morning', 'resources': 8},
                                               {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Afternoon', 'resources': 11},
                                               {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Night', 'resources': 9}, 
                                               {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Mixed', 'resources': 1}, 
                                               {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Morning', 'resources': 13}, 
                                               {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Afternoon', 'resources': 17}, 
                                               {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Night', 'resources': 13}, 
                                               {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Mixed', 'resources': 0}]
                          }

>> requirements_solution: {'status': 'OPTIMAL', 
                           'cost': 113.0, 
                           'resources_shifts': [{'day': 0, 'shift': 'Morning', 'resources': 15}, 
                                                {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Afternoon', 'resources': 13}, 
                                                {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Night', 'resources': 19}, 
                                                {'day': 0, 'shift': 'Mixed', 'resources': 3}, 
                                                {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Morning', 'resources': 20}, 
                                                {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Afternoon', 'resources': 20}, 
                                                {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Night', 'resources': 23}, 
                                                {'day': 1, 'shift': 'Mixed', 'resources': 0}]}
```
